---
title: 'csaw 2024 thoughts'
description: 'Some thoughts and reflection on the first official ctf i helped write challenges for!'
pubDate: 'Sep 8 2024'
heroImage: 
  src: '/blog-placeholder-1.jpg'
  alt: ''
order: 1
tags: ["personal"]
---

## Background Information

So uh, a little background info. How in the hell did this bum from New Jersey who sucks at CTFs be able to write for one of the biggest CTFs? To be honest, I don't know. I was hunting for internships and the very generous people of NYU OSIRIS lab reached back to me and offered me a chance to write some challenges for CSAW quals. So big thanks. (Should've wrote some more pwn based on the feedback...)

### mini golfing

Ok so I made this when I heard that there was a lack of pwn challenges. Tbh im not really that good at pwn. Sure, I can do some buffer overflows or maybe format string but I'm not super good at pwn. So I decided to just make a pretty simple challenge based on something pretty cool I found out about PIE. So what is it?

So basically, when a binary has PIE, the addresses of that binary are randomized. But apparently the last four(?) bits or numbers of the hex address remain static. So what I basically envisioned was to introduce that information in a more easier(?) way... maybe in a way that I would understand.

Therefore, my brain went to one thing -> pwn golf!

Pwn golf is basically a basic challenge whree you find a pointer pointing to a function (usually win), put it in and the program will run that pointer as a function.

I decided to add a little bit more complexity through simple math. So basically it would leak main, and all you gotta do is just find its offset to win in order to well, win.


### Magic Tricks

We don't talk about this challenge because it got easily solved through side-channel analysis even though that was what I was not going for in the solve path. But kudos for CTF players for being creative and efficient.
